Now the second.
You remember going to your first football game as a
student? Oh, I do indeed. What was a football game
weekend like?
It's what you live for in 1976, Haskell. Our
football fortunes had changed dramatically from
those days when I accompanied my father up here in
the late 60s and early 70s. So much so that in 1976,
we were ranked in the top 25 and regarded as a real
power, defensively particularly, and favored in
most of the games that we played. We were playing
Kansas State in the fall of 1976, And it was well
over 100 degrees at 1 o'clock in the afternoon.
Most of our games kicked off at 1 o'clock.
Incredibly humid, bright, sunshiny day. And I had
a date. And in those days, you just didn't go to a
football game with a date without buying her a mum,
an Aggie mum. Quite a tradition. And it was almost a
package for a weekend that if you had a date to the
game, you almost had to figure out what you were
going to do on Friday night, Saturday morning, the
game, and then Saturday night. It wasn't just, do
you want to go to the game? It was quite a dilemma to
figure out, you know, what are we going to do Friday
night and Saturday and, you know. But it was also
great anticipation. What did you all do on those
nights? We tried to find someplace you could go eat
dinner and go to a movie. There weren't many
choices for either.
You do it like you do now. In a lot of ways, you'd find
a group of people and go somewhere and eat and then
do a movie, and it was all building up to obviously
the Midnight Yale practice. And the big question
was, you know, when the lights go out, this is your
first date. Are you gonna kiss this girl for the
first time in Kyle Field? You know, and you did on
occasion. And then on Saturday you'd buy the mum
and meet her parents or she'd meet yours or
something and go to the game together and stand
three and a half hours and then have to decide if you
needed to shower before you went out or whether or
not you were just going to go out right after the
game. Where did the out of town young ladies spend
the nights? I don't know, really, because I don't
remember ever dating a girl other than a girl that
came up from Laredo who stayed with another girl in
a dormitory. But most of the time I didn't have
that. And you had a car. I did. So that getting
around wasn't a problem. Correct. I didn't access
that car Monday through Friday most weeks. And if
you were on midnight yell practice, it was
actually held at midnight, and what did students
do after midnight yell practice? Where'd you go?
The International House of Pancakes and Taco Bell
were the two most prominent hangouts after
midnight Yale practice and I think some of it had to
do with the amount of beer that you'd had that
evening or what have you because it seemed to
promote a level of an appetite that you just had to
go cater to at 12 45 or one o'clock. I can remember at
Taco Bell standing in line for over an hour But it
was almost a secondary party because the parking
lot at Taco Bell would be just a gathering of four,
five, 600 Aggies. And was it normal to ask a girl for
a date for the whole weekend? Yes, indeed it was. I
think that was just an expectation. Now I did have a
roommate that thought that was the case for him,
and on a tough weekend and I had to console him, he
found out that no, she had just agreed to go to the
game with him and that was it. No Yale practice, no
Friday night, no Saturday night, no lunch before
the game, no nothing. Do you remember any examples
of somebody that you knew? that went to yell
practice with a young lady who did not know about
the kiss.
Yeah, I do. In fact, she had been told about it and
didn't believe it. And I guess thought it was just
some more of this Aggie lore that she had heard
about. She was from Austin. And her date was rather
shy and quiet about telling her about this
tradition, but the rest of us were not. And on
Friday night we kept telling her, that was one
thing that Aggies love to do and they'll always
love to do, is talk about the traditions at A&M and
what's going to happen and how great it is to march
in behind the band and lose your shoes and when the
lights go out you better be ready. I guess she
didn't think that it was going to happen, but we
marched in behind the band. I don't remember her
losing a shoe, but the lights went out and this shy,
rather reserved young 19-year-old boy grabbed
her and
she bought into it for a few seconds and then
collected herself and said, wait a minute, I
didn't agree to that. But it was rather fun. Then on
Saturday morning what was the routine? The
routine was always sleep late, hang around the
dorm, talk about the game, figure out if you didn't
have a date what you were really going to do, but if
you did have a date you had to plan your day because,
believe it or not, mums sometimes were sold out by
11 a.m. And I can remember going somewhere and
finding somebody that was selling mums on some
street, coming back to the dorm and putting them in
the refrigerator, and then taking them with me to
go pick up my date. It was kind of an interesting
situation when you had a date who lived on campus
and you know on a real hot day you wouldn't go get
your car to drive over to Mosier Hall so I can
remember hauling that mum across campus and by the
time I arrived at Mosier Hall you know just being
hot and sweaty and my mum being almost wilted And
here I am just ready to go on a date. But that was just
part of it. By the 70s, was the number of coeds
beginning to be large enough that the typical
Aggie who was looking for a date was quite often
able to get one? I wouldn't say quite often, but
certainly able. And I also would say that a lot of
guys still had high school sweethearts that came
to A&M, you know, on weekends. But yeah, I'd say you
could find a date pretty easily. Later in the year,
were we still bringing Tessies up on the train or
the bus? No. That had ended. That had ended. And
let's see, what did we, was it Aggie Sweetheart? So
that had terminated.
Going home to Laredo, was there any routine or any
ritual about giving rides to guys and signing up
and so forth? Yeah, there was. Because Laredo was
such a long way and there were so many cities en
route, it was quite often the case that a guy from
San Marcos, New Braunfels, San Antonio,
Pearsall, Divine, Cthulhu, and Laredo of course
wanted a ride. And that was not a problem at all.
Most of the time it was a Laredo person because
that's a long trip and not the gas expensive Was it
normal for them to share? Yes. Oh, yes. Yes, it was.
But I didn't go home a lot, to be honest with you. I
enjoyed deer hunting. I enjoyed Thanksgiving.
But other than a lot of buddies saying, why don't we
go to Laredo this weekend, I didn't necessarily
feel the need to go home. Do you remember any, in
your first year here, do you remember any
significant out-of-town trips for anything
other than home? Oh yes, oh yes, yeah. A lot of away
games. We'd go to Baylor and U of H and Rice, a lot of
the old Southwest Conference venues. That was
always popular. We'd always load up and have a road
trip. I distinctively remember in the fall of
1978, when a lot of us had just gotten our rings, we
made a road trip to Houston. We were playing rice
and one of our Houston dorm buddies was having a
party at his house. And in a caravan leaving town
near Navasota, we started launching aluminum
cans at each other, empty aluminum cans. It was
quite popular to just roll down your window about
four inches and put the open end of the empty
aluminum can in the window. And when you'd flick
the switch or roll it down another quarter of an
inch, the suction would catch it and just jettison
it. And when that got to be too laborious, it was
just quicker, easier, and sometimes more
accurate to throw a can at a friend's car. I
remember Mark Martin, Class 79, Volkswagen
Beetle in the car ahead of us, throw in that can, and
the look on his face, he was just in the other lane,
just went stark white. Because here came the can,
and I didn't see it, but right behind it apparently
was his Aggie ring. And about when we pulled over,
they pulled over, and we all, two cars backed up,
but within an hour Haskell, there were probably 15
cars pulled over because we had to find his Aggie
ring. And I'm going to guess there were 45, maybe 50
people on that median looking for an Aggie ring,
which we found. All right. Your mention of Aggie
rings, describe your feelings and so forth when
you got your ring. Great anticipation. Excuse me.
I had thought about staying at A&M for summer
school when I ordered my ring, and I did not. My
college roommate from Lake Jackson who was a scene
cadet talked to me about a course that we had both
had trouble with at A&M that was offered at Laredo
Junior College and would transfer. So he
suggested that we both go to Laredo Junior College
that summer. We did, and we had a big time. We lived
in a little garage apartment at our house and went
to Laredo Junior College. But that summer is when I
got my ring. And it was rather unceremonious in
nature because I ordered it in the spring and it
came in a box at home in the summer. And it was just
me. It was delivered and there it was. Do you
remember anybody you proudly showed it to first?
Oh, just everybody. My mother was the first one I
showed it to. My dad knew that I'd gotten it in a
phone call and then he came home and, of course, I
think that was a very proud moment for him. What did
it cost? $112.50. It cost $110 and then $2.50 to
ship it to Laredo. Have you since then had any Aggie
ring stories where you lost a door? Yes. I worked
for Hughes Tool Company when I graduated from A&M
selling rock bits in the oil field. And in Brenham,
Texas on a very cold, cold January day in 1980, I
looked down while I was jetting up a rock bit on a
Clayton Williams' own rig, I might add. My ring was
not there. And in the great expanse of a location,
as they're known for an oil drilling site, I had no
idea where that ring was. But I couldn't have been
more fortunate. The company man for Clayton
Williams was indeed an Aggie, class of 64, I think.
And he didn't exactly shut the rig down, but any
able-bodied person that was not on duty was
assigned to find that ring. And we never found it
that day, but the next day I drove up on location and
one of the rig workers said, you need to go to Mr.
Johnson's trailer, he's got something for you.
And I knew exactly what it was. And there it was,
he'd found my ring. All right, do you have any ring
stories about it being recognized somewhere far
away? Yes, yes I do. And I don't remember the
fellow's name, but it was when I was field
director, and this is a great story. It was a young
Aggie who was with one of the big oil companies, and
he was assigned to the Middle East as a last-minute
assignment. And typically, I understand, you go
through some kind of orientation to the Middle
East culture when you're permanently assigned
there. He was somewhat of a fill-in. And it wasn't a
bar, but it was some type of coffee tea house.
restaurant i'm not sure and
the only reason this female was in there is that she
was the daughter of the proprietor and normally
apparently not a lot of females would frequent
this place without some reason such as their
spouse or whatever they didn't go in there on their
own but this was a rather apparently attractive
younger female And my friend made her
acquaintance and tried to engage her in
conversation. She did not speak English, but he
thought she was attractive and that maybe she
would go out with him. And the father caught wind of
this and watched it, and within a matter of
minutes, police were hauling him out of the
establishment. And he didn't know what was going
on. All he tried to do was talk to this young lady.
He'd been there all of about 24 hours. Well, he put
up resistance, and as he got to the door and they
were hauling him out, he threw his arms against the
jams of the door. And they pulled his left arm, and
his raggy ring was on his right hand, and he held on
and he swept the door jamb as they hauled him out.
Fortunately his ring made noise and he made noise
and one of the patrons in the establishment saw
that hand and saw that ring and within an hour or so
was at the police station or whatever it was and was
taking care of him and it was a high-ranking
official with Aramco, who was a fight in Texas
Aggie. And he said, son, I'm here to get you out, but
let me explain a few things to you about the Middle
East. And so I thought that was an interesting
Aggie ring story. As far as you're aware, what
other institutions have as much tradition about
rings as A&M? None to our level, Haskell. None to
our level. And I have great familiarity with that.
But I would have to admit that there are those such
as the service academies or even the Citadel that
take great pride to the extent that maybe 100% of
those eligible do order and wear class rings. That
was never the case in the Southwest Conference.
It's not the case with most major institutions.
It's just not a coveted keepsake. As far as I'm
aware, the academies, VMI Citadel, maybe
Clemson, A few Ivy League-type schools, both in
the East, maybe Stanford, a little bit Rice, I
think, and so forth. But I think most other schools
have let it slip badly. Let's see. Did celebrities
who came to visit the campus while you were here,
any famous people? Yes. Ronald Reagan came here on
a campaign swing in the fall of 1979. I shook his
hand in the MSC. I told him I was going to vote for
him, that I hoped he became president of the United
States. Steve Martin, the comedian, came here,
and I happened to just be standing somewhere when
he just walked right by me. And it was on the east
side of G. Raleigh White. I didn't know who he was.
He was dressed in a T-shirt and blue jeans. What did
he describe him physically? He was about my height
and had gray hair and I wouldn't have known it was
him if he hadn't said hello. Guess what? His
hometown, Waco. Is that right? Doesn't fit, does
it? No, I didn't know. He doesn't seem like my
impression of Waco. Linda Ronstadt came here when
I was a freshman, and I thought that was big time.
But I'd have to say that my biggest celebrity, or
the guy that I remember the most, was Bob Hope. Came
here on a Friday night before a home football game,
and I had a date to it. And I remember Tom Wilson
presenting Bob Hope with an Aggie jersey that had
12 on it, and that was a big deal. Was this in G.
Raleigh? Yes, it was. Describe a basketball, an
Aggie basketball game. Oh, yes. Can I call you
back? Okay, thank you. Those were frenzied
atmospheres in the days of, oh I don't know,
whatever G. Raleigh accommodated, seven, eight
thousand, nine thousand maybe for basketball. It
helped that we had a very successful program and
that we'd won the Southwest Conference I think in
75 and in 76 before I got here. But a ticket to a home
basketball game was really a premium around here.
And sometimes, even with a sports pass, you lined
up two hours before a game, you read the battalion,
and you did not throw it away. Because in my junior
year, a group of us started just by default, once
again, a tradition that I hope still carries on of
reading the battalion while the opposing team is
being introduced.
We didn't have necessarily a basketball band, we
had the full band in G. Wally White. So the
atmosphere was not only frenzied, it was loud, it
was interactive with the team, everybody knew who
everybody was, it was just a great atmosphere.
What did you guys think about our coach then? Oh, we
loved him. Everybody loved him. He was one of us.
You know, he wasn't Dr. Shelby Metcalf. He was an
Aggie and related well and just always had time for
people. Great guy. And you all didn't make any
noise during the game. Oh, gosh, no. No, we were
quiet as church mice, but no. Indeed, we did. Do you
remember going to Silver Taps? Yes, I do. Bond
recollections. What was your impression the
first time? Well, it was one of, this is why I came
here. This galvanizes my feelings about A&M. I
didn't know any of the deceased. I think there were
three kids or four kids, car accident victims. I
didn't know any of them, but it didn't matter
because at 10-15 everybody in Moore Hall was
turning out lights and going to silver taps.
Everybody. Nobody was going to stay behind
because they had to study, or they were on the phone
with their parents or their girlfriend. Lights
were out, and if you tried to stay back, you had some
challenges, no matter what your reasoning was.
Did you go to Muster as a student? I did, oh yes, very
much so. Describe Muster in those days. Moving,
but not... Where was it held? In G. Raleigh-White.
I don't remember it just being an all-inclusive,
got to go to Muster. Silver Taps was more the
emotional
commanding activity. Muster was more, if I don't
have anything else to do, I'll go. It just didn't
have the, for me at least, or for the dorm
atmosphere, it didn't have the anticipation, the
buildup that, you know, at 5.30 we got to be in G.
Raleigh for Muster. And Bonfire, describe it and
any activities you and your buddies. Well, I
worked on Bonfire. Bonfire was much like it is
today, an anticipated semester-long activity.
There were some times when if you didn't
necessarily have the familiarity with the
culture of Bonfire, you could have been
ostracized a little bit because you didn't
respect the perimeter or the red pots or the the
protocol that they assigned to the bonfire that
given day or that week, whether it was push or what
have you. There was a lot of animosity in my days
regarding bonfire between the band and the Red
Pots and the yell leaders. As to who ceremoniously
was in charge of yell practice the night Bonfire
burned, because the Red Pots had built it, and the
band was marching around Bonfire, but yet the yell
leaders took center stage. So it was kind of a
triumvirate. Now where was it held? On Duncan
Field. And what did you, did you work on it your
first year? I did. I had no choice. In Moore Hall at
about my first experience with bonfire was an axe
handle on my door saying, get up or else and let's
go. And where was the cutting area, do you
remember? Just south of Navasota, just on the
other side of Navasota towards Houston. And you as
a newcomer,
were you treated like a fish in bonfire? No, I was
treated like a frog, which is worse. Okay. Which is
worse. And so your part was to help cut? Yes, sir,
and I had to wear a white piece adhesive tape on my
blue jeans, and I pinched my left finger and almost
broke my right finger. Did indeed break it. But
great camaraderie, you know, a great cause, it
seemed like. We were there for, you know, once you
got into it, you took great pride in it. The fall of
76 is what I regarded as my bonfire, technically.
About when in the fall did you all start working on
it? About the first week school started,
actually, we had a bonfire crew chief in our dorm,
and we had a meeting about the second week of school
and told us all about bonfire and what it meant. And
so during a typical week, how much time did you
spend? Not hardly at all. More on Sunday mornings.
Sunday morning. Sunday morning was a significant
cut day and then evening Sunday afternoon was a day
you worked on Bonfire. It wasn't an everyday deal.
How many weeks before Bonfire did you and your
buddies get to quit working in the cut area?
Probably about a month out, about the middle of
October, something like that. And the stack, I
never worked on the stack. Was there, in the
cutting area, were there both civilian and corps
students? Oh, indeed there was, yes. And people
may argue with this, but there was a female who
actually was in the cutting area when I was there.
And so what did you and your friends think about
that? What were your feelings as the bonfire was
ignited? Well, mine were generated by a lot of
pride in the fall of 76 because I had my girlfriend
from Laredo up here. I had friends who had gone to
other schools visiting and a friend from the
University of Texas was over here. Bonfire was two
days before the game that year because we were
playing in Austin. my first bonfire. And so these
people came up and then we went home to Laredo. But I
felt like more of a host and in showing off this
magnificent bonfire to friends and family. So it
was tremendous pride. What are the events and or
activities that contribute significantly to
Aggie spirit?
Haskell, I'd have to point back again to,
unfortunately,
maybe tragic situations that bring Aggies
together. Silver taps, I'd say, had more of an
impact on me. When people ask the question, You
know, what does it mean to be an Aggie? I suspect
there's 245,000 variations of that. But I'd also
have to recall hundreds, maybe thousands, of
speeches I've heard when people go to a podium and
say something and then refer to it. That's what
being an Aggie is all about. To me, being an Aggie is
about one thing and one thing only, pride. Now,
your interpretation of what makes up that pride is
certainly open for individual interpretation.
But to conclusively say that's what being an Aggie
is all about, I'd have to say pride is the only word
that comes to my mind. And I was proud of my fellow
Aggies when I went to Silver Taps, that everywhere
you look, there's Aggies. Are there some other
activities and or events that contribute to that
pride? Oh, I think there are indeed. I think Aggies
helping Aggies is a tradition that's never
promoted. It's not one that shows up in a handbook.
It's not one that anybody refers to as a distinct
tradition, but it underlies every tradition we
have. I think the old adage about Aggies hiring
Aggies is probably somewhat accurate. But I
really believe that the camaraderie that came
from our military background manifested itself
into a tradition of Aggies just help Aggies.
That's just what you do. They're family. And if
you've got a ring and somebody else got a ring,
that's an instant bond. And all those things that
go with what being an Aggie means to them. But
ultimately, I want to say that summarily it's
pride. As
you look back,
what did A&M do for you as a student that proved to be
significant for you later? You'll find this
interesting, I hope. When I came to A&M in the fall
of 1976, I was a relatively shy introvert.
Although I'd been involved on a very limited basis
in high school and particularly with my Future
Farmers of America involvement, I was not one to
get into everything and join clubs and run for
office and so on and so forth. I think what A&M did
for me was establish a level of self-esteem,
self-confidence, a level of involvement. It's
what I talked about when we first started this
interview. It was an atmosphere of welcome.
You're expected to be involved, and no matter what
you have to contribute, get involved. It served me
well because when I graduated from A&M I was not
necessarily shy, but I'd overcome a lot of that
introvert nature. I think one of the big concerns
today ought to be the worry about how today it may be
easy for a kid to go off by him or herself and not get
involved in anything. No doubt about it. When you
consider 30,000 plus students who live off
campus, that's a legitimate concern. Yeah, yeah.
In those days, as you said, you There was no way you
could have avoided certain things. Let's see,
some Aggie indulgences during that day. What did
the typical student drink or smoke? I didn't run
around with anybody.